hey this is Jodi thanks for watching
another weekly video from welding tips
and tricks comm and welding dash tv.com
this week's video we're talking about
the inductance setting on a MIG welder a
lot of the new inverters have inductance
setting and it's a good setting to have
so we're going to try to explain a
little bit about what that does and how
it winds up looking in the final outcome
I'll run a joint or two with a very low
inductance setting as well as some with
a very high inductance setting to kind
of swing the pendulum the other way as
well as a joint or using straight co2
gas with a high inductance setting and
we'll talk about that along the way and
what that means now this is the settings
I use with the c25 gas to 65 inches a
minute 19 and a half volts I'm doing
outside corner joints using quarter-inch
thick
cold rolled in this first joint I'm
going to do I'm going to set the
inductance to 95 which is pretty high
but for an outside quarter joint like
this and quarter-inch steel it lets it
wet in really nicely it's a kind of a
soft dark kind of lets you space the
ripples out a little bit doesn't crown
up too high doesn't spatter too much
does a good job again this is with 75 25
also called C 25 gas and it lets you you
know make a nice bead width with a
ripple spacing nice and depending on how
how you use your technique but now we're
going to run one really low inductance
setting of five trying to use about the
same technique but since this is manual
welding there's going to be some
differences in the ripple spacing and
whatnot it's hard to duplicate one thing
after another when you you know when
it's manual but you can already see a
difference in spatter and you can hear a
difference in pitch it's like setting
the frequency higher on a TIG welder
because it increases the frequency at
which that wire arcs and short circuits
and makes a little bit more violent a
little bit more spatter makes it crown
up a little bit more but in certain
situations like say uh a good example
might be 1/8 inch lap joint might let
you actually pinpoint the bead a little
bit better and make a tight bead I don't
really care for the the appearance of it
on this quarter inch quarter inch
outside corner
and again this is this is really setting
the inductance low at five and it's it's
their big difference in sound and here
you can contrast that to the setting at
ninety five much softer sound softer arc
wedding in Nice does it does I prefer it
for this type of joint but different
strokes different folks I mean different
applications for different joints now
we're going to run one using very high
inductance set on ninety or actually a
little bit lower than we did before but
it ran better on ninety then then way
high and I'm going to use co2 in order
to use co2 I need to put a little CG
a320 adapter here and I need that nylon
washer in there so that it seats and
doesn't Frost up straight co2 will
definitely frost a regulator without
that thing in there or without the right
one in there I was missing one a while
ago and I used an o-ring instead of that
nylon and just didn't work too good
still frosted up on me a little bit so
this is these are the threads on a co2
tank and it once you put the adapter on
there you can go ahead and use pretty
much your regular regulator so I'm
adjusting it here to a roughly thirty
cfh and I'm going to adjust the
inductance to ninety I tried it all the
way up to max and it didn't work quite
as well at a hundred so I backed it off
just to ninety and it worked out pretty
well but the wire feed speed was way too
high so I wound up having to I wound up
having to turn the wire feed speed down
to 190 and the voltage up to 21
co2 stakes different settings than then
C 25 now this is a decent arc not nearly
as smooth not Lehrer nearly as stable as
the C 25 but it sweating out at a much
lower wire feed speed which kind of
gives you time to kind of go a little
slower sometimes without piling up such
a crown up bead much tighter sweet spot
on the straight co2 it's harder to find
a really good setting but once you find
that it's not too bad I'm doing a little
pulling here just to mess around so
that's the straight co2 and that's what
inductive inductance can do for you on
the co2 it can weld it can make it weld
a lot more like c25 and there are
different ripple spacings here and
that's kind of a preference and actually
means absolutely
thing as far as well quality but there
are some customers that prefer a certain
look and if you want to be able to give
them a certain look and duct ins is one
more tool to be able to do that way
thanks for watching I make a video every
single week come rain or shine even when
life gets in the way if you like what
you see hit the like button make sure to
subscribe and we'll see you here next
week